Chapter 1: What is Dressage

The Idea of Dressage
	Dressage is the French word for training. It is the carefull and systematic schooling of a horse to develop it physically. The end goal of this work is a horse that is stronger and more fit and physically and mentally nimble enough to instaneously respond to the lightesyt signal from its handler. Dressage first originated as a product of war. Well schooled war horses were an invaluable commodity that could littely mean the difference between life or death and victory or defete. Therefore, good war horses sold for high sums and were tressured. At first, the schooling of war horses was mainly about obedience. Battle fields were chaotic and amid the chaos and confusion of men dying, commanders needed to be able to watch their men and issue orders, all while staying safe themselves. In this situation, a nervous, skittering, unobedient war horse was almost an assured death sentance for you and your men. 

	Even before it was used in war, the fundamental techniques of dressage were described as early as 1300 by Xenophon, a Greek (Scheff). He used the techniques to make horses more nimble and agile. Amazingly, his book, "On Horsemanship" is still read by many today. This is both because his techniques are still valid and that this is the background from which dressage and most english style, horse-sport events originate. 

Fundamentals of Dressage
	The fundamental of dressage lie in kindness and compassion for the horse. Dressage is aimed to be the art of making a horse physically and mentally mor compitant and capable than they once were. Occasional sore muscles are to be expected, but the strength and flexability gained through dressage benefits horses. Playing in the paddock is easier and they can strech their neck better to bite their field mate on the butt or grab hay from under the fence! Fairness to the horse can be difficult. First and foremost, the trainer or rider must have sufficient experience to know what each indivigual horse is capiable of in that moment of time. Walter Zetel writes in one of his books, "Dressage in Harmony," that a horse should be pushed to its limit but never beyond that and that a good trainer knows and must know where this limit is to be successful. In order to ensure that the horse is never asked to do more than is possible of it, in addition to the intuition built up by horseman over years of working with horses, the training scale exists. The training scale is a progression of 6 elements of dressage. It builds from the botom up. Thus, without the base present, a horse should not be expected to have the top elements, either. When something goes wrong--the horse spooks at a plastic bag monster, or the rider gets off balence and tenses up, scaring the horse, the unity between horse and rider must be restored from the base of the parymid up. With some very advanced horses, this occurs nearly instaneously, but for young, nervous, insecure, begining and excitable horses, this could take minuites to months or years to create and restore. In fact, all f training, even for the most advanced horses is reinforcing, confirming, and deapening the training parymid. Dressage is first about maintaining and deepening the training parymid in any situation and continuously. 

The Training Pyramid
	The training pyramid is the base of all dressage. To truely understand dressage, it makes sense to look at its fundamentals. 

	Rhythm
		At the base of the parymid is rhythm. This makes intuitive sense to be at the core of all movingwork with a horse. The horse and rider must move together in rhythm ifthey are to work together. Further, a horse that has an irregular rhythm cannot be as manuverable as one whose feet move symetriclly. Further, the unrhythmic horse is likely to experence muscle stiffness, soreness and uneven muscling due to uneven work, deepening problems. 

	Relaxation
		Once a clear rhythm has been established, the trainer caan move to relaxation. In this the trainer asks the horse to relax. Horses are prey animals. Therefore, if they are not relaxed, they are thinking about how to not be eaten. In this mindset, they are unable to focus on their work or rider. Therefore, a horse which is extremly lacking relaxation is sometimes a safety risk. Further, without relaxation, the horse cannot effectively use its muscles. When a horse is stressed much of their energy is burnt internally to their muscles in tension. This makes it hard for them to work, move and be supple.

	Connection
		Once the trainer has the horse working in a clear rhythm and the horse is relaxed, they are ready to apply aids and ask the horse to calmly accept these without loosing rhythm or becoming disconcerted. Aids are cues which the rider communicates to the horse what he or she would like it to do. These inclue applying the leg in various locations and intensities from the horses sholder to middle of belly, seat and weight of the rider shifting on the horses back, the hand connected by the rein and bit to the horses mouth, the voice speaking or making other sounds, the whip used as either a clarifying direction or punishment, and spurs, if present. It takes time, work, and a relaxed mindset for the horse to accept these and listen to them without becoming frightened or upset. Further, the horse must respond them in a timly manner. As training progresses, the connection should become more and more connected and effective. Lighter and lighter aids should be used until communicating with the horse becomes little more than a whisper. 

	Impulsion
		Once the other basics of the training pyramid have been established, the trainer can begin to ask the horse for impulsion with the connection they have established. Impulsion is defined by the United States Equestrian Federation (USEF) in DR116 as "the term used to describe the transmission of an eager and energetic, yet controlled, propulsive energy generated from the hind quarters into the athletic movement of the horse. Its ultimate expression can be shown only through the horse’s soft and swinging back guided by elastic contact with the rider’s hand" (Dressage Governing Regulations). Though rather abstract to the observer, it is part of what gives great dressage its sparkle. It is a horse's desire to go forward easily and willingness to create energy. It involves the horse's hind legs creating energy and transmitting this energy up through its back to its neck to its head and back to the rider's hand. For this to occur, the base of the training pyramid must be intacked. Otherwise, it could surcace as an evasion from the horse because it would not be transmitted throughout the horse's body and directed by the trainer. 

	Straightness
		With impulsion, the horse gives the rider energy with which they can manipulate its body. This means that a horse with impulsion can be bent without leaving a straight line. That is, its fore and hind legs can travel in a straight line while its midsection bends, usually around the riders leg. The same can occur with the horses neck. Horses naturally do not travel in a straight line. They, like humans, have a strong and weak side. Therefore, without correction, they will travel unevenly. This can be a serious problem for an athelete and lead to over use injuries. Straightness also means the trainer can position the horse so its hind legs are to the inside or outside of the rest of its body. This lets the trainer strengthen the horse and make it truely semetrical and able to track evenly. 

	Collection
		Collection is the peak of the training pyramid. With collection, the trainer asks the horse to reballence itself onto its hind legs. This is asking the horse to shift from placing most of its weight on its forelege to placing more and more weight onto its hind legs. This is potentially the most exhilerating moment for a rider. A horse which truely carries himself on his hind legs is exhilerating. This frees up the forelegs for so much more mobility and the energy that is transmitted through the horses body goes into making them spectacular. This, and the sum of the elements in the training pyramid being executed at a very high level, can be seen in the photo. [1] Here, the horse has shifted its weight back onto its haunches and is free to move its forelegs as directed by the rider.

Competition Dressage
	Competition Dressage is regulated by the United States Equestrian Federation (USEF), nationally, and the FÉDÉRATION EQUESTRE INTERNATIONALE



Works Cited:

Dressage Governing Regulations. (2014, January 1). United States Equestrian Federation. Retrieved May 7, 2014, from https://www.usef.org/documents/ruleBook/2013/08-DR.pdf

Scheff, K. (2008, January 1). The World of Dressage | History. Retrieved May 6, 2014, from http://iml.jou.ufl.edu/projects/Fall08/Scheff/history.html

Images Included:

[1]. Dressage. (2014, July 5). Wikipedia. Retrieved May 7, 2014, from http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dressage
